my seminar topic is on superconducting quantum processor 

SLIDE 3

Eventhough with the power of today’s supercomputers, many complex computing problems

cannot be addressed by conventional systems.

so .........Quantum computing is the next frontier in computing field , and it provides an entirely 

new approach to solving the world’s most difficult challenges.


Eventhough , that this concept was presented it was 30 years before

it’s still considered as unknown and many subjects are open for research.


[look at the slide]


SLIDE 4

Coming on to the history behind the quantum computing 

So,it was Richard Feyman who proposed the idea of building machines with quantum mechanics

and as u can see, there are three other figures who helped in devising famous algorithms

like Shors algorithm, Grovers algorithm and Deutsch algorithm.

Lov Grover was a computer scientist and Shor was a mathematicians and Deutsch was a physicist


SLIDE 5
as we are talking about quantum computer we need to know what a quantum computers and 
a qubit means ...........

As we know a classical computer encodes information in n bits and each bit 
can represent 0 or 1 which acts like an on-off switch

so in a quantum computer we use two principles 
Superposition and Entanglement

Superposition means that each qubit can represent a zero or one or both at the 
same time 

and Entanglement happens when two qubits in a superposition are correlated
with one another meaning the state of one whether it's a 0  or 1 or both 
depends on the state of another qubit  

so we can say that a Qubit can be  0 or 1 or 0 and 1 at the same time

SLIDE 6 - Quantum Computer  Performance

now, when we talk about the the classical computer if it has n bit only 2*n states are  possible 
while a qubit have the power to represent 2 to the power of n  states and perform parallel 
operations on all those states at once 
this means that every time you add just one more qubit to a quantum computer 
the number of states increases exponentially and examine we can imagine what a  50 qubit quantum machine 
can do

 
SLIDE 7 Technologies for implementing Quantum Computing 
[look at the slide] 

SLIDE 8

superconducting qubits are solid state electrical circuits which uses superconducting elements  like strontium and niobium
So why do we use superconducting qubits:

1. High designability means that it has 
Different types of qubits, such as charge qubits, flux qubits, and phase qubits, can be designed. 

2. Scalability.
 The preparation of superconducting qubits is based on the existing semiconductor 
microfabrication process.

3. Easy to couple. The circuity nature of the superconducting qubit system makes 
  easy to couple multiple qubits together. 

4. Easy to control. 
like for eg for reading out a qubit we use microwave resonators.


SLIDE 9

Superconducting qubits generally consist of superconducting electrodes, or islands, 
that are interconnected by Josephson junctions.

A Josephson junction is a quantum mechanical device which is made of
two superconducting electrodes separated by a barrier

Here we have Superconducting qubit circuit diagram. 
SO in
fg (a) Charge qubit composed of a Josephson junction and a capacitor. 
Adjusting the voltage Vg can control the number of Cooper pairs.

 fig (b) Flux qubit. L is the loop inductance. 
Changing the bias flux  can adjust the energy level structure of the qubit. 

fig (c) Phase qubit are produced by Adjusting the bias current 
 

SLIDE 10

The Transmon is the superconducting qubit. 
and there are many types of Transmon-type qubit like Transmon,  Xmon, Gmon, 3D Transmon etc., 

Transmon is currently the most popular superconducting qubit 
due to its simplicity and the flexibility of quantum electrodynamic Architecture

In its simplest form, the Tansmon consists of two islands interconnected by one junction and 
 by looking at the fig. The inductance is provided by a Josephson junction and not by a typical coil inductor. 




SLIDE 11
[look at the silde]

qubits lifetime 

SLIDE 12 Qubit  Control using Quantum Logic Gates
so how do we control the qubit
and what kind of  gate used in the quantum processor 

Quantum logic gates are represented by unitary matrices. 
Quantum Gates are reversible
Quantum states are typically represented by "kets", from a mathematical notation known as bra-ket.
The vector representation of a single qubit is:


Here, 𝜗_0and 𝜗_1  are the complex probability amplitudes of the qubit. These values determine 
the probability of measuring a 0 or a 1, when measuring the state of the qubit. See measurement below for details.
The value zero is represented by the ket | 0 ⟩ = [ 1    0 ] and the value one is represented by the ket | 1 ⟩ = [ 0   1 ]

for combining quantum states,or for more than one qubit we use tensor products .
 The tensor product is denoted by the symbol ⊗
The vector representation of two qubits is give below

SLIDE 13-Gates For Single qubit, Two qubits and Three Qubits

[look at the slide]
representation of the two-level system as states 
 on a sphere is a known as the Bloch sphere.)
.The north and south poles of the Bloch sphere are typically chosen to correspond to the standard
 basis vectors |0⟩ and |1⟩ respectively, which in turn might correspond
 e.g. to the spin-up and spin-down states of an electron. This choice is arbitrary, however.
The points on the surface of the sphere correspond to the pure states of the system, 
whereas the interior points correspond to the mixed states.


SLIDE 14-Cross-Resonance Gate 

for my topic we use the cross resonance gate 

The cross-resonance gate was first implemented in 2011

The cross-resonance gate is an entangling gate for fixed frequency superconducting qubits,
 which is implemented by applying a microwave drive to a system of two coupled qubits


CNOT gate,so-called two-qubit entangling gate,is used here 

Typical pulse duration : 200-500ns 
Typical gate fidilities: 96-99%



SLIDE 15-Quantum Processing Unit : Basics
here we are discussing about quantum information processing and eventually building 
a quantum processor 

A fantastic feature of the two-level system is the ability to express the states as 
geometrical vectors on a sphere of radius 1, known as the Bloch sphere.)

first of all we need qubits and  quantum  systems like two level quantum systems 
and we need to control these qubits using single qubit control gates 
we need a lot of qubits to increase the processing capabilities, when using more qubits 
we need them to interact with each other so we use two qubit gates  
and lastly we need to readout the information processed from the qubits,
which are 0s and 1's  so we use qubit readout 

this has many challenges 
first we have to have use gates which are super fast 
readout part should be super efficent with less error rate and more fidelity and should be 
strongly coupled to other qubits 
and the qubits should have long coherence i.e the 0's and 1's should be sharp and have stay for long time 


SLIDE 16 [look at the slide]

SLIDE 17 Physical quibits and frequency 

 

For a typical qubit design with effective operations the frequency should be about about 
5GHz and 4.66GHz, respectively. 


SLIDE 18 Qubit Layout 

The superconducting physical qubits are connected on a 2-dimensional planar substrate. 

   For example:
IBM’s 16-qubit and 20-qubit chips place their qubits on the nodes of 2x8 and 4x5 lattices, 
respectively. 
Google’s 72-qubit chip has a 11x12 lattice

SLIDE 19 Qubit Connection 

To enable two-qubit gates between two physical qubits, resonators, also known as qubit buses, are employed to connect nearby qubits . 

For example,
Figure shows two types of commonly used buses. The first one is a 2-qubit bus connecting two physical qubits.
 The second one is a 4-qubit bus, which connects four physical qubits in a square together. 
The coupling graphs of these two types of buses are shown on the right. Compared with a 2-qubit bus, 4-qubit bus support two-qubit gates on, not only the four qubit pairs on the edges but also two qubit pairs on the diagonals.


SLIDE 20 Qubit Readout

qubit readout is one of the most important process because when a qubit is release it should 
 be read immediately because of its liftime
Fast and high-fidelity qubit readout is crucial in quantum computing.
There are several different readout techniques for superconducting qubit, 
such as charge measurement,flux measurement  inductance measurement, etc.

The dispersive readout is the currently most common readout technique in the circuit QED architecture,
 which i will briefly introduce in the next section.


SLIDE 21 Dispersive Readout

Dispersive readout is to obtain the qubit state information through the readout resonator. 

The qubit circuit is coupled to the readout resonator through capacitance or inductance, and 
the state of the qubit is detected by measuring the transmission coefficient of the readout resonator. 

so the measurement the qubit and the readout resonator form the specific energy level called 
Hamiltonian of the Jaynes-Cummings model

SLIDE 22 Quantum Processor 


SLIDE 23 

SLIDE 24

SLIDE 25

so  for Maintaining  a superconducting quantum computer it should be kept under an extremely low temperature 
This dilution refrigerator has a system of pipes that contain a mixture of two helium isotopes 
It is cooled to this degree by a continous cylce
SLIDE 26 

SLIDE 27 D- wave 2000Q
so D-wave is a candian company 
The D-Wave QPU is built of qubits using niobium
D-Wave systems operate at less than 15 millikelvin, approximately 180 times colder than interstellar space. 
 niobium becomes a superconductor and exhibits quantum mechanical effects Below temperatures of 9.2 kelvin, 
 
like the same in IBMs, Qubits are connected via couplers, which are also superconducting loops. 
so it uses 128,000 Josephson junctions, which makes the D-Wave 2000Q QPU 
by far the most complex superconducting integrated circuit ever built. 
Unlike the CPUs of classical computers, 
D-Wave’s superconducting QPU dissipates negligible amounts of heat during computation.
 The D-Wave system consumes less than 25 kW of power, most of which goes towards operating
 the cooling and front-end servers. 

SLIDE 28 

SLIDE 29 

SLIDE 30 

SLIDE 31



C-shunt flux qubit
it is capacitor shunt flux qubit ---- advantage it releases less charge noise compare to transmon
So charge noise creates decoherence which means it the qubit wont stay for a long time

Fluxonium
series array
of large-capacitance tunnel junctions are connected in parallel
with a small junction

reduces charge noise 

0-pi quibit 
0- qubit is designed with a symmetrical circuit
to obtain an interleaved double potential well



Hardman Gate 
combination rotation of 90 degree about the y axis and 180 about the rotation at 180 in the z axis in the bloch sphere 