the microprocessors in conventional or classical computers are built from billions of transistors that are turned on or off to represent a value of either
one or zero in turn this allows classical computers to store and process data using binary digits or bits in contrast quantum computers process
information using quantum bits or qubits these can be created in many different for example using superconducting electronic circuits


classical computers encode information in bits and each bit can represent a 0 or a 1 these zeros and ones act as on-off switches that ultimately
translate into compute functions to perform a simple calculation like solving a maze a classical computerwould test each possible route one at a
time to find the correct one just as classical computers have bits quantum computers have cubits cubits however make use of two key principles of 
quantum physics superposition and entanglement superposition means that each qubit can represent a zero a one or both at the same time and entanglement
happens when two qubits in a superposition are correlated with one another meaning the state of one whether it's a 0 a 1 or both depends on the state of
another using these two principles qubits can act as a much more sophisticated version of switches helping quantum computers solve difficult problems 
that are virtually impossible using classical computers to illustrate how this makes quantum computers more powerful

let's look at some numbers take a classical n bit computer with n representing the number of bits it can represent and examine only one system state at a time an N
cubed computer however would have the power to represent 2 to the power of n system states and perform parallel operations on all those states at once
this means that every time you add just one more qubit to a quantum computer the number of states that can represent and examine the so a 50 cubit quantum machine 
could examine two to the power of 50 states at once this exponential increase in power together with the entanglement of qubits is what allows quantum computers to
solve certain problems so much more efficiently while a classical computer solves a problem like the maze by testing each possible route one at a time a quantum computer uses its
entangled quantum state to find the correct route quicker with far fewer calculations think of it this way technologies that currently run on classical computers can expertly find
patterns and insights buried in vast amounts of existing data but quantum computers will deliver solutions where patterns cannot be seen because sufficient data does not exist or the
possibilities for discovering an optimal answer are too enormous to ever be processed by a classical computer


High designability. Superconducting qubit system has high designability. 
Different types of qubits, such as charge qubits, flux qubits, and phase qubits, can be designed.

Scalability. The preparation of superconducting qubits is based on the existing semiconductor microfabrication process. High-quality devices can be prepared by leveraging advanced chip-making technologies, which is good for manufacturing and scalability.

Easy to couple. The circuit nature of the superconducting qubit system makes it relatively easy to couple multiple qubits together. In general, superconducting qubits can be coupledby capacitance or inductance.

Easy to control. The operation and measurement of superconducting qubits compatible with microwave control and operability. Thus, commercial microwave devices and equipment can be used in superconducting quantum computing experiments.




Quantum Computing with the IBM Quantum Experience with the Quantum Information Software Toolkit (QISKit)
Nick Bronn,Research Staff Member,IBM T.J. Watson Research Center,ACM Poughkeepsie Monthly Meeting, January 2018 