
Slide: Superconducting Qubits 

Advantages of superconducting qubits
Superconducting qubits are solid state electrical circuits.
Compared with the qubits based on other quantum systems
(such as trapped ions, nuclear magnetic resonance, linear optical
systems, etc.), superconducting qubits have the following
advantages:
1. High designability. Superconducting qubit system has
high designability. Different types of qubits, such as charge
qubits, flux qubits, and phase qubits, can be designed. And
different parameters, such as the energy level of the qubit
and the coupling strength, can also be adjusted by adjusting
the capacitance, inductance, and Josephson energy. Thus, the
Hamiltonian of superconducting qubits can be designed.
2. Scalability. The preparation of superconducting qubits is
based on the existing semiconductor microfabrication process.
High-quality devices can be prepared by leveraging advanced
chip-making technologies, which is good for manufacturing
and scalability.
3. Easy to couple. The circuit nature of the superconducting
qubit system makes it relatively easy to couple multiple qubits
together. In general, superconducting qubits can be coupled
by capacitance or inductance.
4. Easy to control. The operation and measurement of superconducting
qubits compatible with microwave control and
operability. Thus, commercial microwave devices and equipment
can be used in superconducting quantum computing experiments.
These advantages make superconducting qubits become the
leading candidate for scalable quantum computing. However,
to build a large-scale quantum computing, there still remain
some outstanding challenges. Due to the tunability and large
size of superconducting qubits, the primary disadvantage of
superconducting qubits is their short coherence times. Superconducting
qubits are not true 2-level systems, thus the unwanted
j1i ! j2i transition must be carefully avoided during
information processing. Superconducting qubits require dilution
refrigerators to maintain temperatures low enough, and
advances of the capacity of such cryostats should be made
before building a device with millions of qubits. In the last
few years, superconducting qubits have seen drastic improvements
in coherence time, operation fidelities, fast and high
fidelity qubit readout, and even demonstrations of error correction
and quantum algorithms, which we will introduce in
the following contents.

According to different degrees of freedom, superconducting
qubits are mainly divided into three categories: charge qubits [25, 29], flux qubits [30], and phase qubits [31]. We
can distinguish these tree types of superconducting qubit according
to the ratio EJ=EC, where EJ is Josephson energy
and EC is charging energy.
The charge qubit is is also called Cooper-pair box qubit,
which is shown in Fig. 1(a). For the charge qubit, the electrostatic
energy of the Cooper-pair on the superconducting island
is much larger than the Josephson coupling energy on
the junction EJ  EC. The relevant quantum variable is
the number of Cooper pairs that cross Josephson junction.
Fig. 1(b) is a schematic diagram of a flux qubit. Typically,
EJ=EC is much lager than 1 but smaller than 100 for flux
qubit. The states of the flux qubit are distinguished by the direction
of the continuous current state in the superconducting
loop. As shown in Fig. 1(c), the phase qubit is a current-biased
single-junction device with a large ratio EJ=EC (EJ  EC).
Using the two lowest energy levels of the washboard potential,
one phase qubit can be encoded.


New types of superconducting qubits
Based on the three superconducting qubit archetypes, many
new types of superconducting qubits are derived, such as
Transmon-type qubit, C-shunt flux qubit, Fluxonium, 0-
qubit, hybrid qubit, and so on. Some are briefly introduced
below.
1. Transmon-type qubit
Transmon-type qubit, including Transmon, Xmon, Gmon,
3D Transmon etc., is currently the most popular superconducting
qubit due to its simplicity and the flexibility of cQED
architectures. Transmon was first proposed by Koch et al:
in 2007 [32]. In the charge qubit, the charge dispersion decreases
exponentially in EJ=EC, and the anharmonicity algebraically
decreases with a slow power law of EJ=EC. Therefore,
properly increasing EJ=EC can greatly reduce the sensitivity
of the system to charges, while still maintaining sufficient
anharmonicity. As shown in Fig. 2, the charge energy of
Transmon qubit are decreased by paralleling a large interdigitated capacitor across the Josephson junction, thereby obtaining
EJ=EC100.
Xmon can be considered as a modified version of Transmon,
which was proposed by Barends et al: in 2013 [33]. As
shown in Fig. 3, different from the original Transmon’s interdigital
capacitor, the Xmon qubit is formed by a cross capacitor,
and the Xmon qubit is coupled to a common transmission
line through a resonant cavity. Each Xmon is controlled
by two independent control lines, a XY control line and a Z
control line, which can be used for rotating the quantum state
in the X, Y and Z directions. The qubits can be directly coupled
through capacitance. The Xmon qubit combines fast control,
long coherence, and straightforward connectivity, which
is suitable for scalable superconducting quantum computing.
Gmon [34] is based on the Xmon qubit, but the qubits are
connected with a junction serving as a tunable inductor to control
the coupling strength (see Fig. 4). The Gmon architecture
is protected from the problem of frequency crowding that arise
from fixed coupling, and provides a flexible platform with applications
ranging from quantum computing to quantum simulation.
However, the extra inductive coupler introduces additional
decoherent channels, and the device layout becomes
very complicated. In 2018, Yan et al: proposed a simple and
generic scheme for a tunable coupler [35], which is a generic
three-body system in a chain geometry, and the center mode
is a tunable coupler (see Fig. 5). The center mode can be constructed
with any flux-tunable circuit in which the resonance
frequency can be tuned. By modulating the coupler frequency,
the coupling strength of the two next-nearest neighbor qubits
can be tuned. This architecture does not introduce additional
components, and its layout is similar to the Xmon.
3D Transmon is a development of Transmon qubits, which
was proposed by Paik et al: in 2011 [36]. The biggest feature
FIG. 3. (a) Optical micrograph of Xmon qubit. (b) Enlarged image
of SQUID. (c) The electrical circuit of the qubit. Taken from [33].
FIG. 4. Optical micrograph of two inductively coupled Gmon qubits.
Taken from [34].
FIG. 5. Circuit diagram of a superconducting circuit implementing a
tunable coupler, consisting of two qubit modes (red and blue) and a
coupler mode (black). Taken from [35].
of 3D Transmon is the replacement of the planar transmissionline
cavities with a three-dimensional waveguide cavity (see
Fig. 6), which offers several advantages. First, the cavity
has a larger mode volume and is much less sensitive to the
surface dielectric losses. Second, the architecture provides
the qubit with a well-controlled electromagnetic environment.
Thus, this architecture could suppress the decoherence of
qubit while maintaining sufficient coupling to the control signal.
However, scalability is the major difficulty we have to
overcome, if we want to build a large-scale device based on
3D Transmon.
